# Introduction to SWOT data
The Surface Water and Ocean Topography (SWOT) mission aims to provide valuable data and information about the world’s oceans and its terrestrial surface water such as lakes, rivers, and wetlands. SWOT is jointly developed by NASA and Centre National D’Etudes Spatiales (CNES), with contributions from the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) and United Kingdom Space Agency (UKSA).

## Resources
- [NASA PO.DAAC Cookbook](https://podaac.github.io/tutorials/quarto_text/SWOT.html)
- [GitHub SWOT Community](https://github.com/SWOT-community)

## Processing Centers
The processing of SWOT science data products is performed by a joint JPL-CNES science data
system (SDS). The science data processing algorithms and auxiliary data are developed by a joint
JPL-CNES algorithm development team. The same versions of the science data processing software are used regardless of whether a given product output is generated by a JPL or a CNES SDS
processing center. JPL and CNES divide processing responsibilities such that any single product
output is generated by only one processing center. This product output is then made available
at both the NASA and CNES data distribution centers. As such, identical science data products
are distributed by the NASA and CNES data distribution centers.

- NASA PO.DAAC:
distributes oceanography and hydrology products: [EarthData](https://search.earthdata.nasa.gov/search?q=SWOT_)

- CNES:
    - AVISO: 
    SWOT ocean products: [AVISO+](https://www.aviso.altimetry.fr/en/missions/current-missions/swot/swot-ocean-data-access.html)
    - Hydroweb:
    High-resolution hydrology products: [Hydroweb portal](https://hydroweb.next.theia-land.fr/)

## Types
There are two types of SWOT products: 
   - hydrology products: High-rate hydrology datasets, including river and lake vector data in shapefiles, and raster, pixel cloud and pixel vector data in netCDF.
   - ocean products: Low-rate observations of oceans

## Levels 
- L1: raw data
- L2
- L3:    
 The Value-added compared to SWOT L2 KaRIn (L2_LR_SSH) products are:
     - State of the art research-grade upgrades (incl. very recent & submitted papers)
     - Multi-mission calibration (SWOT is consistent with other altimeters)
     -  Noise-mitigation for SSHA derivatives (experimental, AI-based)
     - Pre-made sophisticated editing procedure KaRIn and nadir instruments blended into a single image
     - L3 has new layers (optional) that can blend with L2 fields

## Level 3 Ocean data
3 types of L3 ocean files are distributed: Basic, Expert and Unsmoothed.
- Basic L3_LR_SSH includes only SSHA (Sea Surface Height Anomaly) and mean dynamic topography (MDT).
- Expert L3_LR_SSH includes the backscatter coefficient (sigma0), the mean sea surface (MSS) and geostrophic
currents (absolute and anomalies) in addition to SSHA and mean dynamic topography (MDT). It also
integrates algorithms, corrections and external models as separate layers.
-  Unsmoothed L3_LR_SSH includes the MSS, MDT and geostrophic currents (absolute and anomalies) in
addition to the SSHA and MDT on the 250-m KaRIn native grid. Like the Expert subproduct, it also integrates
a quality flag, corrections and external models as separate layers

### file naming:
```satellite_level_resolution_variable_producttype_cycle_pass_datein_datefinal_version.nc```

For example:

``` SWOT_L3_LR_SSH_Expert_474_022_20230329T155504_20230329T164609_v2.0.1.nc```

SWOT Level 3, low-rate, SSH, expert, cycle 474, pass 22, from 29/03/2023 until 

### Variables

``` ['time', 'calibration', 'cross_track_distance', 'dac', 'internal_tide', 'mdt', 'mss', 'ocean_tide', 'quality_flag', 'sigma0', 'ssha_filtered', 'ssha_unedited', 'ssha_unfiltered', 'ugos_filtered', 'ugosa_filtered', 'ugosa_unfiltered', 'vgos_filtered', 'vgosa_filtered', 'vgosa_unfiltered', 'i_num_line', 'i_num_pixel']```


* time
    - long_name: time in UTC
    - comment:  Time of measurement in seconds in the UTC time scale since 1 Jan 2000 00:00:00 UTC. [tai_utc_difference] is the difference between TAI and UTC reference time (seconds) for the first measurement of the data set. If a leap second occurs within the data set, the attribute leap_second is set to the UTC time at which the leap second occurs.


* time
   - long name: time in UTC
   - comment: Time of measurement in seconds in the UTC time scale since 1 Jan 2000 00:00:00 UTC. [tai_utc_difference] is the difference between TAI and UTC reference time (seconds) for the first measurement of the data set. If a leap second occurs within the data set, the attribute leap_second is set to the UTC time at which the leap second occurs.
* calibration
   - long name: satellite calibration
   - comment: phase screen + phase_screen_static + phase_screen_orbit + xcal. the uncorrected ssha can be computed as follows: [uncorrected ssha]=[ssha from product] - [calibration]; see the product user manual for details.

* cross_track_distance
   - long name: cross track distance
   - comment: Distance of sample from nadir. Negative values indicate the left side of the swath, and positive values indicate the right side of the swath.

* dac
   - long name: dynamic atmospheric correction
   - comment: Model estimate of the effect on sea surface topography due to high frequency air pressure and wind effects and the low-frequency height from inverted barometer effect. The ssha in this file is already corrected for the dac; the uncorrected ssha can be computed as follows: [uncorrected ssha]=[ssha from product]+[dac]; see the product user manual for details.

* internal_tide
   - long name: Internal Tide signal from HRET14/HRET8 blend: coherent mode M2/K1/O1/S2/N2
   - comment: The ssha in this file is already corrected for the internal_tide; the uncorrected ssha can be computed as follows: [uncorrected ssha]= [ssha from product]+[internal_tide]; We recommend to apply on ssha_unfiltered field. See the product user manual for details

* mdt
   - long name: mean dynamic topography
   - comment: The mean dynamic topography is the sea surface height above geoid; it is used to compute the absolute dynamic topography adt=ssha+mdt. A -5cm bias is added to the MDT for consistency with DUACS nadir products. This bias is inherited from the change of reference period implemented in 2014 when DUACS products went from a 7-year reference [1993, 1997] to a 20-year reference [1993, 2012]

* mss
   - long name: mean sea surface height (CNES/CLS)
   - comment: Mean sea surface height above the reference ellipsoid. The value is referenced to the mean tide system, i.e. includes the permanent tide (zero frequency)

* ocean_tide
   - long name: geocentric ocean tide height (FES)
   - comment: Geocentric ocean tide height. Includes the total sum of the ocean tide, the corresponding load tide and equilibrium long-period ocean tide height. The ssha in this file is already corrected for the ocean_tide; the uncorrected ssha can be computed as follows: [uncorrected ssha]=[ssha from product]+[ocean_tide]; see the product user manual for details.

* quality_flag
   - long name: Quality Flag
   - comment: Deduced from L3 DUACS processing; see the product user manual for details.

* sigma0
   - long name: normalized radar cross section (sigma0) from KaRIn)
   - comment: Normalized radar cross section (sigma0) from KaRIn in real, linear units (not decibels). The value may be negative due to noise subtraction. The value is corrected for instrument calibration and atmospheric attenuation. A meteorological model provides the atmospheric attenuation (sig0_cor_atmos_model)."

* ssha_filtered
   - long name: sea surface height anomaly calibrated, edited and filtered
   - comment: Height of the sea surface anomaly with all corrections applied and with calibration, data selection and noise reduction (using Unet model) applied; see the product user manual for details.

* ssha_unedited
   - long name: sea surface height anomaly calibrated
   - comment: Height of the sea surface anomaly with all corrections applied and with calibration. Contains both valid and  invalid measurements; see the product user manual for details.

* ssha_unfiltered
   - long name: sea surface height anomaly calibrated and edited
   - comment: Height of the sea surface anomaly with all corrections applied and with calibration and data selection applied; It is equivalent to the Sea Level Anomaly (SLA) distribued in the nadir DUACS products; see the product user manual for details.

* ugos_filtered
   - long name: Absolute geostrophic velocity: zonal component
   - comment: Derived from [ssha_filtered] field and mean dynamic currents associated with the MDT field
* ugosa_filtered
   - long name: Geostrophic velocity anomalies: zonal component
   - comment: Derived from ssha_filtered field
* ugosa_unfiltered
   - long name: Geostrophic velocity anomalies: zonal component
   - comment: Derived from ssha_unfiltered field
* vgos_filtered
   - long name: Absolute geostrophic velocity: meridian component
   - comment: Derived from [ssha_filtered] field and mean dynamic currents associated with the MDT field
* vgosa_filtered
   - long name: Geostrophic velocity anomalies: meridian component
   - comment: Derived from ssha_filtered field
* vgosa_unfiltered
   - long name: Geostrophic velocity anomalies: meridian component
   - comment: Derived from ssha_unfiltered field
* i_num_line
   - long name: alongtrack indice of the nearest karin pixel from the nadir data
   - comment: alongtrack indice of the nearest karin pixel from the nadir data
   
* i_num_pixel
   - long name: acrosstrack indice of the nearest karin pixel from the nadir data
   - comment: acrosstrack indice of the nearest karin pixel from the nadir data
 
  ### SSHA types:

```ssha_filtered```: 'Height of the sea surface anomaly with all corrections applied and with calibration, data selection and noise reduction (using Unet model) applied; see the product user manual for details.\n'

```ssha_unfiltered```: 'Height of the sea surface anomaly with all corrections applied and with calibration and data selection applied; It is equivalent to the Sea Level Anomaly (SLA) distribued in the nadir DUACS products; see the product user manual for details.\n'

```ssha_unedited```: Height of the sea surface anomaly with all corrections applied and with calibration. Contains both valid and  invalid measurements; see the product user manual for details.
